Docs: azure update (#1183)
pomerium/documentation: content/docs/identity-providers/azure.mdx

---
title: Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory)
sidebar_label: Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD)
description: Learn how to configure Microsoft Entra ID (formerly known as Azure Active Directory) as an identity provider that works with Pomerium Core and Enterprise.
lang: en-US
keywords:
  [
    azure,
    active directory,
    ad,
    entra,
    entra id,
    microsoft,
    identity provider,
    idp,
  ]
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> # Microsoft Entra ID (Azure Active Directory)

Author: ```suggestion
# Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory)
```

Learn how to configure Pomerium to use **Microsoft Entra ID** (formerly Azure Active Directory) as an identity provider.

:::caution

While we do our best to keep our documentation up to date, changes to third-party systems are outside our control. Refer to [Quickstart: Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app) from Microsoft's documentation as needed, or [let us know](https://github.com/pomerium/documentation/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=doc-error.md) if we need to re-visit this page.

:::

## Before you begin

To complete this guide, you must:

- Install [Pomerium](/docs/deploy/core)

> - Create a free [Microsoft 365 administration account](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/business/office-365-administration) (or have admin privileges with an existing Microsoft 365 account)

Reviewer: I think you sign up for an Azure account?

https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/

Author: You can do that as well. This article explains it a bit better: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/enterprise/azure-integration?view=o365-worldwide

---

> title: Entra ID (Azure Active Directory)

Reviewer 2: Based on https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/business/identity-access/microsoft-entra-id it sounds like the full name is "Microsoft Entra ID".

It might also be good to put "formerly" in the title as well as the description?

```suggestion
title: Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory)
```

> sidebar_label: Entra ID

Reviewer 2: I think we should keep "Azure AD" in the sidebar for some time.

```suggestion
sidebar_label: Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD)
```

> description: Learn how to configure Microsoft Entra ID (formally Azure AD) as an identity provider that works with Pomerium Core and Enterprise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to configure Microsoft Entra ID (formerly known as Azure Active Directory) as an identity provider that works with Pomerium Core and Enterprise.
```

lang: en-US
keywords:
  [
    azure,
    active directory,
    ad,
    entra,
    entra id,
    microsoft,
    identity provider,
    idp,
  ]
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> # Microsoft Entra ID (Azure Active Directory)

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this explicit heading line and use the default title instead?

Author: So this is more of an SEO thing. The `title` front matter is treated as the title tag (what you'd see in the browser tab). If you don't include an H1 like I have, Docusaurus will use the `title` front matter value as the H1. Specifically for this guide, including both is redundant, but sometimes the H1 should differ from the title (like the code-server guide). I do this out habit to make sure future pages are treated the same.

Reviewer 2: Do you want to update this heading to match the current title then?

> Learn how to configure Pomerium to use **Microsoft Entra ID** (formally Azure Active Directory) as an identity provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn how to configure Pomerium to use **Microsoft Entra ID** (formerly Azure Active Directory) as an identity provider.
```

:::caution

While we do our best to keep our documentation up to date, changes to third-party systems are outside our control. Refer to [Quickstart: Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app) from Microsoft's documentation as needed, or [let us know](https://github.com/pomerium/documentation/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=doc-error.md) if we need to re-visit this page.

:::

## Before you begin

To complete this guide, you must:

- Install [Pomerium](/docs/deploy/core)
- Create a free [Microsoft 365 administration account](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/business/office-365-administration) (or have admin privileges with an existing Microsoft 365 account)

## Access your Entra ID instance

If you want users to sign in to an application using a Microsoft Entra ID account, either from your organization or from external directories, you must register the application through the Microsoft Azure portal.

> If you have a Microsoft 365 account (formally Office 365), you can use your account's Entra ID instance instead of creating a new one. You can access Entra ID from the **Microsoft 365 admin center** or directly from the **Azure portal**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a Microsoft 365 account (formerly Office 365), you can use your account's Entra ID instance instead of creating a new one. You can access Entra ID from the **Microsoft 365 admin center** or directly from the **Azure portal**.
```

For example, if the **Entra ID OpenID Connect** URL is:

```bash
https://login.microsoftonline.com/0303f438-3c5c-4190-9854-08d3eb31bd9f/v2.0/.well-known/openid-configuration`
```

Then the **Pomerium Identity Provider URL** would be:

```bash
https://login.microsoftonline.com/0303f438-3c5c-4190-9854-08d3eb31bd9f/v2.0
```

## Pomerium Configuration

Configure Pomerium with the identity provider settings you saved in the previous steps:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Config file keys" label="Config file keys">

```yaml
idp_provider: 'azure'
idp_provider_url: 'https://login.microsoftonline.com/{REPLACE-WITH-OIDC-METADATA-STRING}/v2.0'
idp_client_id: 'REPLACE-WITH-CLIENT-ID'
idp_client_secret: 'REPLACE-WITH-CLIENT-SECRET'
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Environment variables" label="Environment variables">

```bash
IDP_PROVIDER="azure"
IDP_PROVIDER_URL="https://login.microsoftonline.com/{REPLACE-WITH-OIDC-METADATA-STRING}/v2.0"
IDP_CLIENT_ID="REPLACE-WITH-CLIENT-ID"
IDP_CLIENT_SECRET="REPLACE-WITH-CLIENT-SECRET"
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note

> As of this writing, Pomerium only supports **`azure`** as the valid **`idp_provider`** name to reference Microsoft Entra ID as an identity provider (not **`entra`**).
> 
> This means you **do not** need to update **`azure`** in your configuration file. If you update the **`idp_provider`** key to **`entra`**, it will break your configuration.

Reviewer 2: To me, the way this is phrased feels like we're assuming users have an existing configuration file with `azure` in it already. Given that this page is framed as a guide, I don't think this makes sense.

I'd suggest we stick to something simpler here:

```suggestion
Pomerium currently uses **`azure`** as the **`idp_provider`** name to refer to Microsoft Entra ID.
```
